“Yes Chef!” - Tentworks Interactive Dev Test
Engine/Language: Unity/C#
Version: 6000+ (would be convenient to use 6000.4.12f1 but not required)
Deliverable: Project source link on a shareable repository such as Github or Bitbucket. A zip file
link from a cloud service such as Google Drive or Dropbox is also acceptable.
Expected Time to Complete: 4-6 hours. Please do your best to find time and submit something
within a week of receiving this, but if you need more time don’t hesitate to contact us.
What We’re Looking For: Put your best foot forward and showcase your dev skills. Pretend as
if you’re laying the foundation to a full-fledged game. Clean, efficient code, scalable architecture,
and good usage of Unity systems will make your project shine!
Project Specifications
Below we will describe the overall design of a simple game we’d like you to implement. If there
are any gameplay design ambiguities, feel free to get creative and if you desire you may include
notes on your design decisions in a readme. If there are fundamental ambiguities, i.e. you think
these instructions might not cover something important required to complete this project, please
email priyank@tentworks.io for clarification.
● Sound is not required, and art/graphics may be as simple or complex as you’d like.
These two elements will have no bearing on how the project is judged whatsoever. For
example, you can even just use primitives and colors. Having just enough visuals to
represent what’s going on is sufficient. We don’t expect a developer to also be an artist!
● The project is expected to be in 3D with the camera from above looking down on the
gameplay area.
● Do not use any plug-ins except for the default ones that you can find in the Unity
package manager if you need them.
Diagram of Game Area
Here is an example of the layout of the game. These elements will make more sense as you
read the instructions below. You may adjust or change placement of objects, scale of objects,
etc. to your liking and how you think would create an appropriate and fair game.
Setting
You control a one-man kitchen serving various plates of food. There is only one game area, the
kitchen, which has 4 walls. The entirety of the kitchen should be visible within the camera’s
frame. No camera movement or zooming is required.
In the kitchen, there are several points of interest:
● Refrigerator: Used to acquire raw ingredients.
● Table: Used to chop vegetables.
● Stove: Used to cook meat.
● Customer window: Used to place ingredients.
● Trash: Used to clear an object in hand (typically if a mistake has been made).
Gameplay Loop
When the game starts, display a UI window with the controls you have implemented. Click a
button to begin the game.
Each game is 3 minutes long. The player is tasked with fulfilling as many orders as possible. A
maximum of 4 orders may be active at any time, represented by 4 customer windows along a
wall of the kitchen. The game starts with all 4 open orders automatically.
The player must go to a refrigerator to pick up an ingredient. Then they must prepare that
ingredient at the appropriate station (if required). Once prepared, the ingredient can be placed
at a customer window which requires that ingredient. Once all ingredients at a window / order
are fulfilled, that order is complete and score is tallied. After 5 seconds, an empty customer
window will spawn a new order.
When the 3 minute timer expires, the game ends. A button will appear that resets the game if
pressed. If the player gets a high score, the game acknowledges it (“New High Score!”), and the
score is recorded and saved as the new high score.
More details about specifics of the gameplay loop below. Design of player input and interactions
is your choice.
Refrigerator
The player must be next to a refrigerator and acquire an ingredient. Refrigerators contain all raw
ingredients and never run out of ingredients.
Ingredients
There are only 3 ingredients:
● Vegetables
○ Must be chopped on a table before being added to an order.
○ Score value: 20
● Cheese
○ Does not need to be prepared. Can be added directly to an order.
○ Score value: 10
● Meat
○ Must be cooked on a stove before being added to an order.
○ Score value: 30
Ingredients must be in hand when transporting them between stations. The player can only hold
1 ingredient in hand at a time.
Table
Only 1 vegetable can be chopped on a table at a time. It takes 2 seconds to chop
vegetables. Once chopped, the ingredient can be used to help fulfill an order.
Include UI that indicates how much time is remaining on chopping vegetables, and a visual
distinction between unchopped and chopped vegetables.
Stove
A stove has 2 slots for meat. When meat is placed on a slot, it takes 6 seconds to cook. After it’s
done cooking, the ingredient can be used to help fulfill an order. The player does not need to
remain near the stove while the ingredient is cooking.
Include UI that indicates how much time is remaining on meat before it is finished cooking, and
a visual distinction between raw meat and cooked meat.
Customer Window
There are 4 windows in the kitchen. Customer windows have some sort of visual UI near each
one indicating the required ingredients needed to complete the order. There also needs to be a
timer next to each window with an open order indicating how long the order has been open so
the player knows which orders are in need to be completed first.
Players can place a prepared ingredient in a window. If the ingredient is not required for the
current order or there is no order at the window, it will remain in hand.
When an order completes, display the score added for completing that order near the window
(e.g., “+17” or “-6”) then fade it away after a few seconds. It takes 5 seconds for an order to
respawn on the window.
Orders
Orders have a 50% chance to be 2 ingredients and a 50% chance to be 3 ingredients. The
ingredients themselves are completely random, meaning you can have any combination of
ingredients, including duplicate ingredients (meat, meat, meat is a possible combination).
The score is the sum of the ingredients’ score value minus the number of seconds that have
passed since the order first became active. Orders can have negative score value if it takes too
long to complete!
Example: An order was cheese and meat and it took 14 seconds to complete it, so the player
receives 10 + 30 - 14 = 26 points for that order. Time to deliver is rounded down, i.e. 14.99
seconds to deliver an order only docks 14 points for that order.
Trash
This is used to throw away any ingredient, raw or prepared. Typically this is not needed in
perfect gameplay but is there in case the player makes a mistake picking up the wrong
ingredient.
Other UI
● Score: Current score and high score (the maximum score achieved in any game session)
should be displayed on the screen. The high score should be stored and persist between
game sessions.
● Timer: The time remaining before the game ends.
● Pause button.
● Quit game button.
Player Character
The player character must be able to move around the kitchen and interact with the various
objects and hold an ingredient in hand. Please choose a movement speed that feels appropriate
for the pace of the game.